cluster-tag-filter (#1059)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04-clusters/06-cluster-management/15-cluster-tag-filter/01-global-cutome-rroles.md

---
title: "Palette Resource Roles"
metaTitle: "Palette Global and Custom Resource Roles "
metaDescription: "Palette Global and Custom Resource Roles "
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';
import PointsOfInterest from 'shared/components/common/PointOfInterest';
import Tooltip from "shared/components/ui/Tooltip";

# Overview

The page encompasses the Palette Resource Roles. We support two broad classifications of Resource Roles:

<br />

* [Palette Global Resource Roles](/clusters/cluster-management/cluster-tag-filter/global-cutome-rroles#globalresourceroles), the set of roles built in and available to you.

* [Palette Custom Roles](/clusters/cluster-management/cluster-tag-filter/global-cutome-rroles#customroles), the roles you can create in Palette using our available set of permissions and operations.
   * [Create Custom Role](/clusters/cluster-management/cluster-tag-filter/global-cutome-rroles#createcustomroles), how to create a custom role in the Palette console.

## Global Resource Roles 

> The set of Global Resource Roles available within the Palette are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette provides the following global resource roles out-of-the-box:
```

<br />

* [Resource Cluster Admin](/user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions#clusteradmin)

* [Resource Cluster Editor](/user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions#clustereditor)

* [Resource Cluster Profile Admin](/user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions#clusterprofileadmin)

* [Resource Cluster Profile Editor](/user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions#clusterprofileeditor)

* [Resource Cluster Profile Viewer](/user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions#clusterprofileviewer)

* [Resource Cluster Viewer](/user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions#clusterviewer)

> ##  Custom Roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##  Paltform Permissions
```
These are platform permissions, not custom roles.

> You can [create your set of custom resource roles]() in the Palette console and attach them to the user. The set of customizable Permissions and Operations supported by Palette to create custom roles are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a list of permissions and operations supported by Palette. Use these permissions when creating a custom role to control its access.
```

<br />

> 1. CloudAccount

Reviewer: Resma, each one of these should be its own table with the following column (Action | Description). The user needs to understand what each permission does. It might seem intuitive but we need to define the action.

   * Cloudaccount.get
   * cloudaccount.list

2. CloudConfig  
   * cloudconfig.delete  
   * cloudconfig.get  
   * cloudconfig.list  
   * cloudconfig.update

 3. Cluster  
    * cluster.delete  
    * cluster.get  
    * cluster.list  
    * cluster.update
   

4. ClusterProfile  
   * clusterProfile.delete  
   * clusterProfile.get  
   * clusterProfile.list  
   * clusterProfile.publish  
   * clusterProfile.update
   

5. DNS Mapping  
   * dnsMapping.get  
   * dnsMapping.list
  

6. Location  
   * location.get  
   * location.list

7.  Machine  
    * machine.get  
    * machine.list

8.  Macro  
    * macro.get  
    * macro.list

9.  Registry  
    * packRegistry.get  
    * packRegistry.list

> ## Create Custom Roles

Author: This is the sub section which tells how to create custom roles.. so i placed it here.
